---
---

# Blockchain oracle
Blockchain oracle is a service that connects blockchain to third-party clients and services, and serves to mediate blockchain and external data sources by providing a way to exchange it between third-party service and vice-versa.

By design, neither smart contracts nor blockchain can connect to other worlds. In more technical terms, they are not designed to access data in the off-chain.

By bridging the gap, Blockchain oracle plays an important role and enables blockchain to have the right way to access off-chain and on-chain data.

On smart contract blockchain, a hybrid smart contract (smart contract using oracle) uses a decentralized oracle network (DON) that checks, validates, and validates resources of external services to be used in the blockchain.

Blockchain is a simple data structure in design and often requires data from external sources, so there is no data. Data from external sources must be accurate and reliable.

Using a variety of oracle decision models, distributed Oracle Networks (DON) computes, manipulates, and analyzes data from different sources to ensure high levels of data accuracy and a single point of failure.

## Oasys Oracle

Coming soon, Est. Late 2022 ~ Early 2023


## Type of blockain oracle:

### Software oracle
Interact with online information sources as the most common type of oracle and send them to the blockchain in real time. Software oracle uses online databases, servers, web scrippers, APIs, and more to import all the data on the web.

Examples of software oracle can use YouTube API to supply YouTube data to the Ethereum blockchain, or to get information such as exchange rates and digital asset prices.

### Hardware oracle
Hardware oracle is designed to retrieve information from the physical world, such as hardware and computer peripherals, and is more reliable than Software oracle because it essentially converts real events into smart contracts.

As an example of hardware oracle, when a food supply chain passes through the supply chain, information is automatically delivered to a smart contract that processes it, and smart contracts can take appropriate action accordingly.

### Inbound and Outbound oracle
Inbound oracle is an oracle that uses external sources to transfer data to smart contracts, and Outbound oracle is an oracle that sends information generated by smart contracts to the real world.

### Centralized and Decentralized oracle
Centralized oracle is controlled by a single entity and is the only provider of information about smart contracts. Using only one information source can be dangerous. The effectiveness of the contract depends entirely on the company that controls oracle. 

Decentralized oracle shares some of the same goals as the public blockchain, avoiding the other party's risk. Increase the reliability of the information provided to smart contracts by not relying on a single source of information.

### Contract-specific oracle
Contract-specific oracle is an Oracle designed for use in a single smart contract. In other words, deploying multiple smart contracts requires the development of a proportional number of Contract-specific oracle.

Contract-specific oracle is time-consuming and expensive to maintain, so it is impractical except to use it to provide specific use cases.


